------------------#James I Portrait, Who When What.-----------------------------------------
This is James I & VI of England and Scotland. He reigned in Scotland from 1567 to 1625 and reigned in England from 1603 to 1625.
James was born June 19th 1566 in Edinburgh Castle, Scotland and died March 27th 1625 in Theobalds, Hertfordshire, England in 1625 at the age of 58.
James ruled England from 1603, after the death of Queen Elizabeth the first (his mother's sister). He had 7 Children but only 2 survived to adulthood. He was an extravagant king, many of his disputes with his Parliaments were due to his love of lavish goods and giving such goods to his favourites. James I saw himself as wanting to be a mediator in Europe, instead of getting involved in the conflicts. He gave himself the nickname "Rex Pacificus".
James believed himself to be very intelligent and firmly believed in the Divine Right of Kings, which led to many disputes with his Parliaments. James was very fond of his favourites, such as Robert Carr and George Villiers. Some parties would often introduce young men to James, with the hope of that they could be used to influence him.
------------------#Anne Portrait, Who When What englishmonarchs.co.uk/stuart_25.html-------------------------
This is Anne of Denmark, Wife of King James I & VI and the second daughter of King Frederick II of Denmark and Sophie of Mecklenburg-Gustrow.
Anne of Denmark was born on 12 December 1574 at the castle of Skanderborg on the Jutland Peninsula in Denmark and died aged 44 on 2 March 1619 at Hampton Court
Anne and James were first married by proxy in August 1589,at Kronborg Castle, and were officially married in November 1589 at the Old Bishop's Palace in Oslo, after she became stranded in Norway due to violent Weather.
Anne was very tall, taller than her husband, had blonde hair, blue eyes and a very fair complexion, but irregular features. James was at first infatuated by his bride, but later the couple often disagreed, though in the early years of their marriage, James seems always to have treated Anne with patience and affection. 
----------------# Henry Portrait http://www.englishmonarchs.co.uk/stuart_22.html------------------------
This is Henry Frederick Stuart, first born son of James VI and Anne of Denmark. He was Duke of Rothesay, Earl of Carrick, Baron of Renfrew, Lord of the Isles and Prince and Great Steward of Scotland at birth. Later he became Duke of Cornwall upon James' accenssion to the English throne, then the Prince of Wales and Earl of Chester in 1610.
Henry was born at Stirling Castle on the 19th of February 1594 and died in 1612 from Typhoid Fever, aged 18. Charles Carlton related that , "Few heirs to the English throne have been as widely and deeply mourned as Prince Henry."
As a young man, the would-be King Henry IX showed great promise, was intelligent and athletic. Described as an "obdurate Protestant", when his father proposed a French marriage, he replied that he was "resolved that two religions should not lie in his bed". "He was tall and of an high stature, his body strong and well-proportioned" recorded William Hayden, groom of the bedchamber.
Prince Henry was extremely popular in England and often eclipsed his father, for whom the same could not be said. Henry was a keen collector of paintings, sculpture and books, at the age of 16, he had already built up an art collection. When he was born, he was placed in the care of the Earl of Mar, as his father was concerned that his wife's leanings toward Catholicism might affect her son.
----------------#Charles Portrait https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Charles_I_of_England-------------------- 
This is Charles Stuart, second son and third child of James VI and Anne of Denmark. He was the Duke of York from 1605 and, after the death of his father, he ruled as Charles I of England, Scotland and Ireland from 1625 to 1649. 
Charles was born at Dunfermline Palace on the 19th Novemeber 1660 and was executed on the 30th January 1649 at Hampton Court.  He was a sickly baby, who was baptized quickly, underlining the fact that he was not expected to survive. He grew to be a delicate child, who experienced difficulty in walking and talking. Charles eventually conquered most of his problems with speech but retained a stammer for the rest of his life.
Charles, perhaps due to the many illnesses which marred his childhood, grew into a rather short man, at only five feet four inches high, with dark hair and the striking, brown, heavy lidded eyes of many of his Stuart and Tudor ancestors. He much resembled his father, but lacked his sharp intelligence. Charles was unconfident but possessed of a stiff and regal dignity
In attempt to form an alliance with Spain, Charles visited the Spanish court with his one of his father's favourite, George Villiers,The Duke of Buckingham. He was said to be besotted with the Catholic Spanish Infanta, Maria, daughter of the Habsburg King Phillip III, but his plans to marry her came to nothing.
----------------#Elizabeth Portrait https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elizabeth_Stuart,_Queen_of_Bohemia---------------
This is Elizabeth Stuart, the only surviving daughter and second child of James VI and Anne of Denmark and named in honor of Queen Elizabeth I of England, who was also her godmother.
Elizabeth was born on the 19th August 1596 at Dunfermline Palce and died on the 13th February 1662 at Leicester House. 
In 1613, she married Frederick V of the Palatinate at a Whitehall Palace, both aged 16. Their marriage produced 13 children and was an enourmously popular match.
In 1619, Frederick was elected as King of Bohemia, with persuasion from Elizabeth. Their reign was a short one, as Ferdinand II defeated Frederick at the Battle of White Mountain, expelling Frederick and Elizabeth from Bohemia. Her short reign gave her the nickname of "The Winter Queen", as they only reigned for a single winter.
--------------#Charles Marriage--------------------------------- https://www.britannica.com/biography/Charles-I-king-of-Great-Britain-and-Ireland
This an invitation to the marriage of Charles Stuart of England and Henrietta Maria of France.
Initially, Charles wish to marry the Spanish Infanta, Maria, daughter of King Phillip III. However, the matched didnt happen, largely due to the Duke of Buckingham's Arrogance and a prerequiste that Charles become a Roman Catholic.
Charles and Henrietta Maria did not get off to a great start. When the 14 year old French princess first met Charles, she burst into tears. They were first married by proxy on the 11th May 1625 and married in person at Canterbury Cathedral on 12th June 1625.
After the assassination of Buckingham, Charles grew closer to Henrietta Maria. Over the course of their marriage, they had a total of 9 Children. Two of his children, Charles and James were future kings of England.
#---------------# 30 Years War Pamphlet #--------------------------- https://www.britannica.com/event/Thirty-Years-War  https://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/thirty-years-war-ends
This is a phamplet signfiying the outbreak of what would become the 30 years war in Europe.
Whilst events,such as the Defenestration of Prague, lead to War in Europe, It is agreed upon that the war began in 1618, when Ferdinard II tried to enforce "Roman Catholic absolution" rule over his areas, which lead to the Protestant nobles of Bohemia and Austria to rebel.
The war ended October 24th 1648 with the treaty of Westphalia. This lead to the Netherlands gained independence from Spain, Sweden gained control of the Baltic and France was acknowledged as the preemminent Western Power.
Many wanted James to lead Protestantism in Europe, but he was relucant to engage in the war, opting to try to remain as a Europe's Peace Broker. He was still pursuing a spanish marriage for Charles, but Charles and the Duke of Buckingham favoured war after they returned from meeting the Spanish Infanta in Madrid.
#-----------# Great Contract #--------------------------------------------- https://www.historylearningsite.co.uk/stuart-england/james-i-and-the-great-contract/
This is the Great Contract, introduced by Robet Cecil in 1610.
The purpose of the Great Contract was to attempt to sort out James' Finances. In return for abandoning his traditional feudal rights, James would be granted £200,00 by Parliament each year. Additionally, a secondary aim was to give James a way to pay back Royal Debt.
The main issue that stopped progress was an inability to come to an agreement. Cecil attempted to raise the figure to £240,000 a year, justifying this by arguing that the monarchy needed it to maintain the expected standards. The House of Commons was less than compliant, mainly due to the James' unwillingness to listen to their grievances. Instead, Parliament offered £180,000 a year.
James blamed Cecil for the failure of the Great Contract and did not cement any positive relationships between himself, Cecil and the House of Commons. Sir Julius Caesar, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, admitted that the Great Contract wasn't the correct solution and would never have worked anyway
#-----------------# Book of Bounty #---------------------------------------- https://thehistoryjar.com/tag/the-book-of-bounty/  https://quizlet.com/13337743/james-i-1603-11-flash-cards/ https://thehistoryjar.com/tag/bates-case/
This is the Book of Bounty, also known as the Book of Rates, issued by Robert Cecil in 1608
The In 1608, the revisions to the Book of Bounty brought in an additional £70,000
Cecil extended imposistions ,import tax, by 1400 items.
The Bate's case lead to the the new Book of Rates. In 1606, John Bates refused to pay the new duty levied on Currants. He was ordered to pay the duty by the Court of the Exchequer, as the money was for regulating imports, not revenue for the king himself. This meant that the Crown could raises taxes and make more money without asking Parliament , as long as they claimed that the tax raises were to do with regulating trade.
#--------------------# King James Bible #---------------------------
This is a copy of the King James Bible, issued in 1611
The appointment of Richard Bancroft was a disappointment to the English Puritans. He was enthusiastic in his desire to purge the Puritans, a view that James did not share. Overall, 80 Ministers lost their livings. Bancroft wanted Ministers to follow the 1604 Book of Common Prayer, to wear the religious clothes, retain the sign of the cross and other "Popish" aspects. Bancroft died in 1610 and was replaced by George Abbot, a sympathetic Calvinist who was more tolerant towards Puritans.
James had a more relaxed attitude towards religion during his reign. Often, he was willing to ignore practising Catholics, as long as they did it in secret, paid the fines and did not cause any trouble. Following the Gunpowder Plot, new laws were brought in against Catholics but were not enforced with vigor. In 1606, the Oath of Allegiance was introduced, requiring Catholics to swear loyalty to the Crown and to pay fines.
During this time, about 1% or 35,000 of the population were Catholics. By law, the population had to attend Church regularly. A majority of Catholics refused to attend the Sunday Services. They were classified as Recusants and were forced to pay fines. Not all Catholics were extremist, and there was effort taken to separate the extremists from the moderates.
#--------------------# Millenary Petition # ----------------------------------
This is the Millenary Petition. It was presented to James I on his way from Scotland by Puritan Ministers.
The goal of the Millneary Petition was to remove the liturgy of a number of Popish Practices, such as using the sign of the cross during baptism, removing the requirement for wearing Popish clothes and to prevent pluralism and allowing multiple parishes to be under the supervision of one minister.
The Millenary Petition was signed by 1000 Puritan Ministers, hence why it gained the name Millenary Petition.
The outcome of the Petition was the Hampton Court Conference. This was traditionally seen as a failure, due to James' outburst of "No Bishops, No King", when there was mention of removing the Bishops. However, the conference has been reassessed and some believe that the Puritans were happy with the changes they got. It is now believed that James listened to their grievances, although many Bishops slowed down the process of reform.
#--------------------- # Gunpowder Plot #----------------------------------------- https://www.history.com/topics/british-history/gunpowder-plot  https://www.historiccoventry.co.uk/1605/main/content.php?pg=four-plots
The Gunpowder Plot was a failed attempt to assassinateS James I and the Parliament on November 5, 1605. The plot was organized by Robert Catesby. Other plots against James included the Bye plot, which aimed to kidnap James and force toleration for Catholics, and the Main plot, which aimed to depose James and replace him with his cousin, Arabella Stuart.
The goal of the plot was to end the persecution of Roman Catholics in England and to hopefully replace the Protestant leadership with a Catholic leadership.
On the day of the attack, Lord Monteagle, the brother-in-law of one of the conspirators, recieved an anonymous letter which warned him to not attend Parliament on November 5th. Monteagle alerted the government and Sir Thomas Knyvet discovered Guy Fawkes in the cellar underneath Parliament with 36 barrels of gunpowder.
Under torture, Fawkes revealed the names of his co-conspirators and they were arrested. Fawkes and the remaining surviving chief conspirators were to be hung, drawn and quatered in January 1606, but Fawkes took his own life moments before he was due to be exectued.
#--------------------# Parliament #-----https://www.historylearningsite.co.uk/stuart-england/james-and-parliament/--------------------------------------------
The first Parliament of Stuart England lasted from 1604 to 1611. The major issues it dealt with were royal finances and the raising of money for James without the consent of Parliament.
In 1614 the Addled Parliament sat. This parliament dealt with religious issues (primarily the spread of Catholicism) and royal finances. However, it only sat for eight weeks before being dissolved by James as it wanted to discuss the whole thorny issue of the raising of money by the Crown without Parliamentary consent – a topic James was not prepared for them to discuss.
The next Parliament under James was in 1621. The Thirty Years War had started in 1618 – so foreign policy matters were of primary concern. Parliament also wanted the right to discuss its own powers and rights – something that James was not prepared to allow. As with the Addled Parliament, the life of this Parliament was cut short in December 1621.
Parliament also sat in 1624. The two major issues it dealt with were raising money for war with Spain and the imprisonment of Lionel Cranfield, the finance minister for the Crown.
#----------------------# Foreign Policy Map #--------------------------------------------------
Treaty of London
Twelve Year Truce between Spain and the United Provinces begins
England joins the protestant union of countries
Elizabeth marries Frederick of the Palatinate
Defenestration of Prague and Invasion of Bohemia
Frederick Accepts offer of Bohemian Throne
Frederick Expelled from Bohemia following the Battle of White Mountain
Palatinate Invaded
End of the 12 year truce of Antwerp
Frederick expelled from the Palatinate
Charles, Duke of York and George Villiers, Duke of Buckingham visit Madrid
Anglo-French Treaty leads to the marriage of Charles and Henrietta Maria of France
Failure at Cadiz
Charles and Henrietta Maria marry
Failure of Mansfield's Expedition
James I Dies
#-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



bits to redo
He was
later he became 
then the
Described as an "obdurate Protestant"
treated her with patience and affection
court with his one of his father's favourite, George Villiers,The Duke of Buckingham (pronounced Villy-ers)
with the Catholic Spanish Infanta, Maria,  (pronounced In-fanta, like the drink)